User feature (#2070)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-03-11-user-feature-install.adoc

categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/jjiwooLim
author_github: https://github.com/jjiwoLim
seo-title: Build and install a Open Liberty user feature by using Maven plugins.

> seo-description: Develop a simple OSGi bundle and deploy it onto the Open Liberty runtime.

Reviewer: I feel we need to noodle on the description ...

blog_description: "Develop a simple OSGi bundle and deploy it onto the Open Liberty runtime."
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Build and install an Open Liberty user feature using Maven Plugins
Jiwoo Lim <https://github.com/jjiwooLim>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

> You can expand the capability of Open Liberty by writing your own features and installing them onto the server. For example, you can develop a user feature to configure a custom authentication provider or incorporate custom functions that aren't shipped with Open Liberty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can extend the capability of Open Liberty by writing your own features and installing them onto the runtime. For example, you can develop a user feature to configure a custom authentication provider or incorporate custom functions that aren't shipped with Open Liberty.
```

== What is an Open Liberty feature?

> An Open Liberty feature consists of a definition file, or feature manifest, and a collection of OSGi bundles that provide classes and services that correspond to a particular capability in the Open Liberty runtime environment. In this post, we’ll use Maven plugins to build and install a custom Open Liberty feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Open Liberty feature consists of a definition file, or feature manifest, and a collection of OSGi bundles that provide classes and services that correspond to providing a particular capability in the Open Liberty runtime environment. In this post, we’ll walk through the use of several Maven plugins to build and install a custom Open Liberty feature.
```

=== What is an OSGi bundle?

> The link:https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/wasdtfe?topic=overview-osgi-bundles[OSGi bundle] is a Java™ archive file (JAR) file that contains Java code, resources, and a manifest that describes the bundle and its dependencies. The bundle is the unit of deployment for an application. The OSGi manifest file contains metadata that enables the OSGi Framework to process the modular aspects of the bundle.

Reviewer: Do we need the "TM" here?

Reviewer 2: Just copied from the Websphere doc, we can remove it

Author: removed

> == Try it out

Reviewer: This "Try it out" label seems kind of odd to me (in terms of the overall flow of the blog post) ...

Why don't we make this "Creating a user feature"?

We will use `Eclipse` to create Maven projects.

> For more information, check out link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Building a web application with Maven].

Reviewer: Why do "Eclipse" only and why not point to the Liberty Starter (https://start.openliberty.io)?  I can see that we may want a plain Maven project but poking at it in any case.

Reviewer 2: I thought Eclipse would be better because users can start fresh whereas the starter application and the guide already contains some other dependencies and plugins that is not required for this blog. Maybe we can do

```
In this blog, we will use `Eclipse` to create Maven project. You can also create and download starter application from our website. 
For more information, check out link:https://start.openliberty.io [Create a starter application].
```
